Hi friends in this video let us discuss about
One dimensional array and pointers
So an array is
a data structure used to store and access values
of the same datatype. Arrays are closely associated with
pointers
Consider this integer array with five elements 10 20 30 40
and 50 with 1000 being the base address
Since this is an integer array, each element takes four
bytes of memory
arr will point to the first element of the array
which is 10.
Hence arr will have the address of
First element of the array which is 1000. &arr will
point to the entire array.
Hence &arr will have
The base address of the array which is again 1000
arr+1 points to the second element of the array
because arr points to the first element and
adding one to arr will move the address of arr
by four bytes which is the size of the integer
datatype. Hence arr+1 will have the address
1004. &arr+1 will point to
the next array series because &arr points
to the entire array block and adding one to it
moves the pointer
By the size of the entire array which is
5 * 4 equal to 20 bytes here
Hence it will have the Value 1020. Now
To understand this easily consider this example
So consider this building as an array. Each floor of
the building represents an element of the array.
arr will point to the first floor of the building
arr+1 points to the second floor of
the same building. &arr points to
the entire
building. &arr +1 points to the
very next building
Similarly &arr+2 points the next building in
the series
So that's all
And thank you for watching this video.